# Overview

The School of Mathematics is moving to the Fry Building upon the completion of its renovation in the summer of 2019. The Fry Building was built in the year of 1909 and as such has since undergone many changes which has resulted in quite a confusing layout. Furthermore, being built over a century ago, not much consideration was given to wheelchair accessibility, which is only further complicated as a result of the changes made throughout the years, resulting in wheelchair accessible paths that are not particularly straightforward. Our client John Newby, Move Manager at the School of Mathematics, has been managing all aspects of this complicated transition, including the response to the Fry Building’s unfortunate fire in 2018. An obligation of his role being to make this transition as smooth as possible, he seeks a way in which to facilitate both the staff and the students’ familiarisation with the Fry Building’s new layout, regardless of whether or not they require wheelchair accessibility. 

A navigational tool in the form of a mobile application is situated as as solution to this problem, as by calculating and displaying on a map the most efficient and suitable route for each individual user, from their current location to their desired location, it should help in their familiarisation with the layout. The positioning process for both the current and the desired location is to be achieved by either manual selection on the map or through the use of the search functionality.

Although we did consider determining the current location automatically, ultimately we opted to avoid this as the use of GPS seemed infeasible due its lack of precision at the scale we require and the use of bluetooth beacons seemed too costly to deliver the desired accuracy and too complicated to implement in our development time frame. To alleviate this, the selection of the current location is aided through the use of 360° images taken at a collection of common locations. 

We have realised the application as an Android application, using Android Studio to create the user interface and Java to develop the underlying logic. The application is aimed for use by members of the University of Bristol, specifically members of the School of Mathematics, and as such is an educational sector application. As a result of the Fry Building being currently under renovation, access to the premises is not possible so we have developed the application for the Physics Building, which has a similarly confusing layout. However we have endeavoured to make the application as modular as possible to facilitate the addition of the Fry Building. 
